Welcome back to the chapter on deploying
microservice based applications.
And in the first section we are
going to have a quick look at
the example microservice application
that we're using in mostly
end of chapter labs
but also in certain
exercises along the way.
We have got an exercise where we
deploy this application as well
and then have a look around it.
Then we're going to have a look
at how to deploy microservices
in OpenShift Container Platform
and a guided exercise about that.
And finally, how to deploy
Quarkus applications in OpenShift
in an exercise about that as well.
The standard end of
Chapter Challenge exercise reviews
the entire chapter's contents.
Having a look at Conference application,
it's basically a slightly
modified version of
the MicroProfile Conference application
that is provided as a
set of good practices,
in example techniques by the
Eclipse MicroProfile project.
We're using the Quarkus
Conference application.
The intent of this
application is basically
to handle the requirements
of managing a conference.
So it will have a schedule that's the
main part obviously of a conference,
which is a plan of lectures,
including the speakers
that present the sessions,
the attendees, and the optional
votes post the session.
So we have a number of entities already.
Speakers, attendees, votes, and sessions.
Every entity that we're going to
use has a generated identifier,
so we do not use explicit
fields as entity identifiers.
Schedules consist of several sessions.
Sessions are presented by many speakers
and attended by many attendees.
The same speaker can give many sessions,
although obviously not at the same time.
And the same attendee can rate the same
or different sessions multiple times.
So our example application
encompasses 4 main microservices,
each one related to another,
according to the entities that
are displayed in this diagram.
For the sake of showing different
situations, different application decisions
each microservice uses a slightly
different design choice.
Some microservices, for example,
use an in-memory database,
although the others might
rely on external database,
some microservices use
the Active Record pattern
that we've mentioned in
the previous chapter.
Others rely on the classic
DAO data access object
or even inject store beans
which manage persistence.
Now the following diagram
actually shows us
what we'll be doing with the conference
application throughout the course.
We'll be creating it incrementally,
so some components will not
be available at all times.
We've actually created the speaker
application or a part of
it in the previous exercise,
that is end of chapter lab, right?
So what we have is a web user interface.
We won't be
delving into this one.
There's going to be an
authorization web service,
the speaker web service,
which should already be known
from the previous end of
Chapter lab that uses an
H2 in-memory database.
There's going to be a
sessions application
that uses a Postgres data
store in the back-end.
A schedule application,
which uses another in-memory
Derby database and a voting microservice,
which uses MongoDB for its datastore.
To simplify the
discovery of these microservices,
we do have sort of an API gateway
which centralizes the end
points in a single host,
under a single host name,
and enriches communications from clients,
such as a web user interface,
and it provides centralized
authentication using JSON Web Tokens.
Now, the authorization application
is going to be a mock microservice.
So it basically simply generates
authentication token and simulates a more
complex identity management service.
And as we said, the Web user
interface is a finish Pattern
Fly application that is used to
visualize the whole application.
We have an extensive list of
endpoints that are available
in different microservices.
Feel free to consult
the table that you see,
in the book, to get
acquainted with some of
the more commonly used endpoints
exposed by the applications.
Despite being a relatively
complete application,
this conference conglomerate
of microservices
is obviously far from being ready
for production use because we
have used some workarounds and
even unsafe practices to simplify
the entire code base.
For example, there is
embedded database usage,
which is definitely not recommended
unless your application is
supposed to be transient.
You should not use in-memory databases.
You should persist application
data in an external datastore.
It could be a database,
could be a file system.
It could be distributed cache,
anything that can restore the data
after an application shut down.
We will be storing passwords for databases in
plain text for the configuration
of our microservices.
Again, that is not something that
we would normally do in production,
despite the fact that may be
deployed in trusted environments.
So we would use other
approaches like Kubernetes
secrets or some sort of
safe storage solution like
Vault or something of the sort.
The authorization service, the AuthZ
is a mock identity management service.
So generally, of course in production,
we would use something like LDAP,
SSL solutions like Red Hat SSO, KeyCloack,
not something that just
simply grants everybody access.
We will discuss CORS a little bit later
but all the microservices have Cross-origin
resource sharing filters enabled.
But those filters are completely
misconfigured when it
comes to production environments because
they allow requests from any origin.
It is a much safer practice to limit
the allowed origins only
to those that are trusted.
So for example, simply the
location of your web application
and perhaps locations of the
known other entry points.
Also the exercises enable
the Swagger user interface,
the web user interface that allows
the API documentation and
endpoints to be exposed.
When deploying Quarkus applications
to production,
Swagger is actually
disabled unless you turn it
on explicitly because that
is simply a better practice.
As of right now we do not have any
API gateway application really,
so front end and the microservices
communicate directly,
which means that the front end needs to be
configured to know where
those microservices are
and there is no enrichment of
the responses from the microservices
as they are provided to the application.
That being said, we do have an exercise
coming up where we're going to start
all the services that compose
the Quarkus Conference application
and familiarize ourselves with
the front end a little bit.
Join us in the next video.